Healthcare Health Care Equipment  Services What We Think Pharmaceutical Pharmaceuticals, Biotechnology  Life Sciences.
Why is there a severe immunological and inflammatory explosion in those affected by sarms covid19

        
Why is there a severe immunological and inflammatory explosion in those affected by arms covid19 are these only genetic causes related to the immune response of il6 and macrophages, or would other types of scenarios be related to some environmental element 



il6 is a marker for macrophages, as an essential and preinflammatory marker, but my question is not directed at that already known factor, but what I am asking is the reason for such a brutal response by the immune system.



For example, here in Spain one of the parallel treatments is the administration of corticosteroids and antiinflammatory drugs.



And another of the most worrying markers in patients is the increase in ferritin, or that its values are out of range. 



The exacerbated response of the immune system, specifically il6, which in addition to being preinflammatory, also has an antiinflammatory function, depending on which synergies occur with its two types of receptors. Ril6 and gp 130 this acts as an antagonist, these types of proteins are very typical in endothelial cells or in macrophages.



But my question is why this so severe call of il6 and il1 by those affected by covid19.



Could it be that the viruss nexus protein had some synergy with Ril6 binding to it and in this case, it was acting as an agonist, and to act, making a call effect. I dont know.



My question is directed more at him, why of that abrupt and exaggerated call. And in such a short time.



Could it have to do with the virus replication speed vs. slower activation speed of T and B lymphocytes



In innate immunity, Monocytes in this case macrophages are cells that present il6 in their cell membranes, but such a large amount … of response.



It is as if the immune response is more associated with cellular damage DAMP. Why



Even soluble peptides like cathelicidins HDPs that react and are produced by cells of the epithelial tissue of the respiratory, digestive system or the skin itself, which are pro and antiinflammatory. and they also act as chemoattraction agents, proapoptosis in the case of epithelial cells and antiapoptotic in the case of neutrophils, they are one more barrier of the innate immune system, yes, but to such an extent of producing that inflammation so severe, and that cell death in such a short time