Blackcoffer Data Science Statistics What We Think.
How you lead a project or a team without any technical expertise

        
Have you ever wondered whats common between Sir Alex Ferguson, Pep Guardiola, and Jose Mourinho I know it might look a lame question, especially to the ardent football followers. At first instinct, the answer is that they are regarded as the top managers in the football universe. UCLwinners. But when given a closer look, these managers, werent that great when it came to their careers as football players. Any naïve observer can build a fallacy of causation and correlation that those who dont have a great career as a football player will go on to become a great football manager. But is this restricted just to football Mike Brearley, one of the greatest captains in the history of cricket and the author of the book the art of captaincy, wasnt the prolific batsman of his time. Our former President, A P J Abdul Kalam didnt have a political background, but was still appointed as the president of our country and went to become one of the finest presidents our country has ever had. So, can it be stated with confidence that great leaders need not be the expert in their respective fieldsLets understand the leadership role, types of leaders, and explore a few more perspectives before we arrive at a conclusion. 



Lets start by first understanding what or who is a leader. A leader is not a position or a designation. Its a virtue if employed correctly. From a janitor to the CEO, from a student to a researcher, from a content writer to a philosopher everybody is a leader. leadersareeverywhere So, what are the virtues of a leader One of the famous personality trait theories, the Big 5 personality trait theory is always linked closely with leadership. As per the various researches, the personality traits of extraversion, openness, and conscientiousness are associated with leaders more often than the other two traits. Not just these humble and empathetic are also considered as the adjectives that are frequently associated with leaders. But nowhere is technical expertise related to a leader. NOTSOTECHNICAL



As stated by Colin Powell Leadership is the art of accomplishing more than the science of management says is possible. ItsART If leadership is an art and leaders are the artists then more or less the leaders can be viewed as directors of the films who are organizing, arranging, managing, and directing the scenes. Another analogy for that can be the orchestra where the conductor is using the batonstick to set the rhythm of the band. So, is it necessary for the conductor to himself or herself by a great violinist No. When it comes to the corporate sector the leader need not be an expert on the technology but should know how the technology functions so that heshe can utilize it in the best possible way. They can allocate the task of building technology to the right technical experts. And how do the leaders identify the right person for that job Or how do leaders know what qualities to look for in a person Experience. Every great leader once started off as one of the frontline workers or at the bottom of the pyramid in the hierarchical structure. Even though they might not have had the technical expertise in their respective fields, their visionary outlook, their management skills, and the experience they gathered helped them in achieving their targets. Leaders can always take the assistance of the subject matter experts to guide them in situations of technical difficulties. As per the great man, situational and trait theory of leadership, leadership is innate to the person. Leadership though can be conditioned or can be brought out in a person by rewarding him, great leaders show unconditional attachment towards their vision. Everyone knows how to read a map, but which path to choose isnt something that can be taught. Leaders give the direction or vision to the company and drive it closer to the target that the company wants to achieve. Leadership theories dont focus on the technical knowledge of the leaders, but rather more on people skills, their approach towards a problem, and how well they guide and hire others to get the job done, which is also evident as per the managerial skills required as per Robert Katz.







Though it can be argued that technical experts are also the great leaders in their areas, but these leaders are generally at the middle management level. As per the different leadership styles, a servant leader is the one who always tries to achieve the goal of the team. These leaders are the ones who have a management objective laid out in front of them and they drive the team closer to achieving the target by having the peoplefirst mindset, a collaborative approach towards solving the problem. These are the people or the leaders needed at the execution level of the project or those who are too close to the employees at the bottommost level. Since the managers at the top of the pyramid dont get much time to invest in people they appoint the right people on their behalf to get the job done.  



Consider an IT firm. So as per the points mentioned above, does it mean that a leader or the manager shouldnt know how to code Depends. If the person is the first line manager then he or she should probably know how to code so that he or she can help the team in achieving the target of producing less garbage which might be one of the projects KPIs. The project manager, who might be an operations manager, MBA from an IT background, probably need not know what line of code is to be written but should know the algorithms or the logic behind the code so that he or she can validate the code from the clients perspective. The CEO, might not be from an IT background but should know how to run an IT firm rather than the syntax of the code.



But in todays competitive world leaders cant be one dimensional. They need to have expertise in multiple areas to be at the top. Mike Brearley if got a chance to play a T20 match, wont even get picked into aside, not because of his age, but because of his not so great looking batting statisticsThegamehaschanged. His leadership skills wont be enough to get him into the squad. But he can be a great leader if selected to coach the top 15 captains in the world today. As we have already discussed the film directors, their job isnt to teach the cameramen on how to set up or operate lens settings, etc the camera. Their job is to guide the cameramen on what angle it should be held and how he or she should coordinate with the lights crew so that a perfect shot is captured. So even if a leader may not be a technical expert of his field, but if he or she has the right approach and mindset, understands the system and its process, then he or she can hire the best talent for the job and can get the work done by guiding the talent, with his or her vision.







So, the answer to the question, which we came across in the first paragraph, is yes and no. Depending upon the position in the hierarchy yes for a frontline manager and no for a CXO and the type of the leader you are, the level of technical expertise needed varies. Though as stated earlier by Robert Katz, the CXOs need to have the least amount of technical expertise, the CXO should know how the technology functions or what are the applications. What processes are to be followed to build the technology.  He or she should now what is to be done rather than how it is to be done, itsnothowitswhat. Otherwise, even though the company might be sitting on a gold mine but If the leader isnt aware of that or isnt learned enough to know what to do with it, no company can succeed even with having all the resources at their disposal. Leaders command respect and dont demand it and thats possible when they give value to their frontline employees, seek timely advice from the technical experts, and put the resources to the best of its uses. Otherwise, you will be surrounded by technical experts like dilberts. dilbert



Blackcoffer Insights 20 Rohan Mehta, Symbiosis Institute of Operations Management