Artificial Intelligence,What We Think.
How Voice search makes your business a successful business.
Finding ways to make using the Internet easier is something most modern consumers are passionate about. Since the rise of AIinfused technology like Amazons Alexa or Apples Siri, voice search has grown increasingly popular. In fact, nearly 60 percent of people all over the world use voice search at least once a day.
As this technology grows more popular and complex with each passing day, business owners are starting to take notice of voice search. Capitalizing on this trend is only possible when optimizing the content on your website for voice search. Are you trying to make your website more voice searchfriendly If so, check out the following tips.
1. Accuracy of voice search
In the past, if you wanted relevant answers from a voice recognition technology, well—good luck with that. But today, machine learning systems can compete with people in terms of accuracy. Googles voice recognition, Google is now able to understand human language with 95 percent accuracy. These improvements mean that, while you can trust good voice systems to match customers with the right products, services, or information with increasing degrees of nuance, leading businesses already have set customer expectations for delivery. Thanks to machine learning algorithms that can detect speech and respond with meaningful results.
2. The interest in voice is only going to grow
Because voice search systems are at a point where they actually can perform reliably and meet customer expectations just as well if not better than traditional query options, customer trust in them is growing
60 of 18to49yearolds talk to automated voice systems at least once a day.
Voice shopping is expected to reach 40 billion by 2022—up from 2 billion in 2018 global smart speaker sales expected to exceed 30 billion by 2024.
30 of people who dont have a voice assistant would like to buy one.
50 of smart speaker owners would like to get information about deals, sales, and promotions.
Yet, only 4 of businesses are properly optimized for voice search. Whats with the disconnect In other words, business leaders are at an ideal intersection where reliable systems are available and there are still many customers who havent been reached or who might want more out of the systems they currently use. Bringing those systems and customers together will help companies avoid being left behind.
3. People are after convenience and all types of information
When people use voice search, they dont just want to locate a great pair of shoes or a TV. People want all kinds of other information, such as your store hours, how to connect to support specialists, and when youre having your next sale. This is partly why some experts have predicted a totally different internet within the next five to 10 years, one where voiceactivated chatbots have all but replaced the ecommerce channels were used to using.
Shoppers are also after general tips that can take some of the friction out of everyday life—think life hacks and howtos. In fact, words like how, what, best, and easy are among the top voice search queries. This means that when it comes to online marketing, you probably need to change your entire optimization approach, taking elements like grammar and semantics, the structure of your site, and structured data markup that influences Googles ability to find your content. Of course, optimizing from the start, not as an afterthought, is ideal.
4. How Voice become part of customerbrand interactions
Voice Search can be used on both desktop and mobile searches. We can see that customers want different types of information from voice systems, they also can use it at many points in the customer journey. For example, about half of shoppers use voice to research products, even near me searches results are mostly done by customers. Customers also use voice to
Add items to shopping lists 36
Track packages 30
Make a purchase 22
Give a rating or review 20
Contact support 18
Reorder something 17
These statistics show you should think beyond just having customers find you or your products. Voice search and commands can take your buyers from start to finish, so give your customers as much convenience and satisfaction as possible by integrating voice options into more types of interactions.
5. Voice is often just the starting point
A survey showed that, once a consumer makes a local voice search, their next most common action is to call the business 28. Customers also are highly likely to visit company websites 27, show up at the companys location 19, and do more research into that business or additional businesses 14 and 12, respectively. So, in short, while voice services can allow a customer to complete many steps without human interaction, you shouldnt see it as a total substitute. Many people are going to take further steps after the initial search, and they still will want to hear a human voice respond back once in a while. They are going to have more questions, and theyre willing to physically connect with you and what you offer. Dont drop the ball in other areas, like making your site aesthetically pleasing and easy to navigate, having enough staff ready to chat, listing an accurate contact number, or keeping your store wellstocked. Voice search already is shifting the way customers engage with brands, but theres still time for companies of any size to get involved with voice systems in ways that can benefit both the customer and the businesss bottom line. The next step is to find voice search solutions. However, as with other technologies, these are not necessarily one size fits all, meaning its critical to shop around and be specific about your goals. If you can customize and update your options in a scalable way, theyll be even more effective for your business.